---
title: **Climate Claims: Cabbage's Relationship with CO2**
layout: default
nav_order: 1
---
The article elaborates on a study about cabbages growth patterns in a multitude of environments where the testable variables were light intensity and CO2 concentration in the air. The study looked at four different light intensities (75, 150, 300, and 600 photosynthetic photon flux density) and four different CO2 levels (400, 800, 1200, and 1600 ppm). Each of the 16 trials was allowed ample water, nutrients, and 40 days to grow completely. After this time, the dry mass of each trial was recorded. The argument that was listed here was that cabbage benefits from the increasing light intensity and CO2 concentration, thus global warming is beneficial to our lives rather than detrimental. This article is interesting because at first glance the science is backing their statements, but it is the conclusions that are jumped to and the lack of understanding of the impact climate change has on soil structure and weather patterns that make this article misleading.

The article is written for a lay audience by an educated corporation with natural biases. 
The founder of the organization has his Masters of Science in Agronomy and Geography but is a well-known climate change skeptic, also tends to write papers outside his field of expertise (CO2’s impact on aquatic life and reefs). The important part of this article is that there is nothing that is factually out of place, the authors provided the reference to the study which does directly back their claims. The interesting portion of the article referred to a calculation that was used to understand the leaf completely, this equation was the SLA is equal to the leaf area divided by the dry mass. As stated in the article the leaf’s dry mass did increase with increasing CO2 concentrations and light intensities but did not think to tell the readers that this ratio was prone to decrease as these parameters increased. This is important to note as this means that the leaves are becoming structurally dense but are not growing larger, this is beneficial to farmers who sell by mass whereas the consumer buys based on a who will have to pay more for the same product. So even with this study saying that the dry mass does increase, that is likely due to the cabbage being able to store greater amounts of CO2. Due to the higher densities, the farmers can sell less cabbage for a greater cost where the consumer must then buy the denser unit at a greater cost. Within the author's article, they fail to mention that these plants were grown in the ideal soil conditions alongside ample water. The growing issue surrounds how climate change will impact the soil and the water supply, droughts will become more common and no amount of dense cabbages will overcome the damages caused by climate change. Overall, this article is well written but it is clear that the information provided is biased and picked to best suit the author’s stance.

CO2 Science, 2021. The Interactive Effects of CO2 and Light Intensity on Lettuce Growth. [online] CO2 Science. Available at: <http://www.co2science.org/articles/V24/feb/a1.php> [Accessed 14 Feb. 2021].
